>> Zac Gordon: Next,
let's come down to conditionally loading.
So, this is something, as I mentioned,
is helpful when you only want your
JavaScript to load on a certain page.
For example, if we look at all of
the different conditional tags that we can
use, I don't know why, sometimes I
just like looking through this page.
I don't know,
it's cool to see what's out there.
Is home, is it the front page?
Is it a single page,
is it a single page with an ID of 17 or
Irish Stew, or is it an array of things?
Is it, there are so many different of
these, not all of these are appropriate,
but certain things like, is it a certain
page, or is it the about me page?
If it is,
then I want to load my JavaScript there or
I don't want to load it.
What I did is single, and
this means is it a single blog post page.
The other thing you could do is put
a exclamation point in front of it,
and then this will check to make
sure that it is not a single page.
We'll see some other stuff
later when it comes up of.
We could say,
is it a specific page template, and
we'll create some custom stuff to use it.
So, we'll come back to
conditionals a little later.
It may not apply to you, but it's helpful
to know that it's there because there's
nothing more painful than trying remove
stuff when you can't figure out how to
get it off the page and
it's your own code.
All right, so.
>> Zac Gordon: All right,
last exercise, and
this is super important.
So, if we wanna get into the API stuff,
we have to know how to pass data
out to our JavaScript file.
The few important parts here is what
file are we attaching this to, or
what needs to have access to it.
So, in this case,
it's jsforwp-theme-js, and
anywhere that's available it
will make this available.
We can name this whatever we want, but
because it's in the global namespace,
you don't want to name
this something like, well,
you probably wouldn't want vars anyway.
Like globals, or something that's going
to possibly be used by another app and
then be overridden, right?
We do have to worry about
that with JavaScript, so
I always namespace it and
then call it vars, or globals,
just depending on the mood I'm in,
or lets or cons.
I don't know,
you can do whatever you want, and
then here I'm passing out the URL of the
site which is one of the template tags.
And there are literally hundreds of these,
so this is where knowing the PHP and
theme and plugin side of WordPress
before we get into the JavaScript stuff
is really helpful.
Because this stuff and blog info is
very common anytime you're displaying
the name of the site, or
I could change this to description and
things like that and
get different values out of it.
On the frontend,
I'm going to actually load this one,
I'm going to come in and do 1.6
>> Zac Gordon: 1.5.
Looks like I broke something,
sorry, one second.
>> Audience Member: Is
it maybe not on the complete one?
>> Zac Gordon: That's it, thank you sir.
Okay, Line 16.
Okay, thank you.
Okay, 116 is loaded,
let's see we should get our site now.
Okay, and now notice,
down here in the console, I'll start in
the theme.js So in my theme.js I
now have access to jsfawrp_vars,
again this is exactly what I named in my
functions.PHP down here jsfawrp_vars.
And then whatever the property is
that I set so the site URL and
the site name are the two one's.
And then when we load this,
we're going to see this data.
Again not the original use case but
this is how we're gonna pass
things like nonsenses and
the URL to access the API correctly
into our java script and get that.
That's probably the most common
things we'll be using it for, so For
authenticating and for
getting dynamic data that we need.
Okay?
So that pretty much wraps it up now.
I think we fielded about
all the questions we have,
so if there's any?
>> Audience Member: Well,
there's one question.
>> Zac Gordon: Is there?
Okay.
>> Audience Member: Yeah,
from the chat just looking
to see if there's a theme.
That uses View that you can think of.
Do you have an example?
>> Zac Gordon: Let me come back to that
later cuz I'm actually going to,
when we get in a little bit further,
I have a View demo.
And there are some, but
I'd have to go back and look them up.
There are more React and Angular themes
at the moment than there are View.
And there's more instances of
people doing small stuff with Vue.
I know a good one.
Go to xwp.co.
>> Zac Gordon: xwp
is one of the WordPress VIP shops, and
they recently rebuilt their whole
site using Vue, so great example.